1)SHARED RESPONSABILITY:
Shared responsability is the concept that , you have certain responsabilities as a 
customer and Azure have the owns. 
There are different hosting options and cloud subscriptions that the customer can 
choose , and the responsabilities depens from this choice.
For ex: with the cloud most basic level , which is to get a window server or a
Linux server, the management of hardware is an Azure responsability but; once you
have installed a particular operating system , you are responsible for ensuring 
that the patches are applied. 

2)PUBLIC CLOUD, PRIVATE CLOUD , HYBRID CLOUD 
There are 3 kinds of cloud : 
-Public cloud: Azure is the own of the network , hardware and infrastructure ecc..
...and everyone with a credit card can rent one of these services
-Private Cloud : big companies or banks ecc that wants to use some cloud services 
(for ex: they take big hardwares with annual contracts ecc or they can use their
 personal hardware and using only some cloud services like only the network)
-Hybrid Cloud : is a mix between private and public ( Microsoft is really strong
about this kind of cloud respect to Google and Amazon)

3) COSTS: 
Servers ,databases ecc.. are managed from Azure greater than you can ,this because
Azure can buys his resources in large scale and manages its with an advantageous
architectural system and in places where the overheating of the components isn't
a problem. So , sure you will spend less renting a cloud service than buy and 
manage yourself.

Investment: OPEX(operating exspense-spesa operativa) is the cost to manage and 
to feed(alimentare) a system or a product. 
CAPEX(Capital expenditure) is the cost buy/develop the product or system.
(for ex: the moneys payed to buy a photocopier is Capex ,while the costs to buy 
paper , toner a for maintenance are Opex.)
With Cloud there is only Opex , not Capex(there aren't big costs of investment) 

4)BENEFITS:
-Availability: Cloud services are always active the 99,99% of the time ,with that 
0,01% for rare unexpected events that can cause a fall. Every giant informatic 
companie has suffered at least one.

-Scalability: if you need more resources you can have it, you only have to pay 
more. (ex: You have not to buy a lot of memory if you don't need it , you can buy 
less memory and if you need more you can have it immediately paying more)

-Reliability: If you won't have all the services that Azure has promised to you
or you are not satisfied, you'll be refunded.
+When you do a backup , your data copies are stored in more regions ,so there are
more copies in more areas and youre data are safe.
Backups are doing periodicallyi and automatically, you can configure it.
+Chaos Studio is a strument. You can fake some kinds of errors on your applications
; network errors,database errors ecc... so you can test your application about 
these errors .

-Global Coverage: There are a lot of available regions in which you can rent
resources, and this big availability is a giant advantage.
You can for ex. execute your application on a server in United States and
in United Kingdom ,so if the server in United States fall, there are still 
active the servers on United Kingdom and vice versa.
In addition for ex. if you have customers only in Italy you can choose a region 
near Italy to execute your server , so the latency will be lower and the 
performance will be grater. 

-Predictability: Azure keeps track , so you can see if you are interested,
about all the updates that will be applied and how , 
and how some failures are solved .
In addition if some areas the services will be unavailable for works,
you will know this first.

-Security: there are a lot of security services that you can apply on your
application like Azure Firewall,a system against DOoS attacks and Security 
Artificial Intelligents ecc....we will talk about these later .
Security is a foreground service for Azure.

-Governance: there are a lot of goverment rules for every regions that you have to
respect when you rent resources from a specific region. For ex. in Europe there
are the GPDR, a set of rules that tell you for ex. how you have to store the 
customers data or how and when you have to call the autority when data were
stolen (sono stati rubati). 
So you can also create additional governance rules for your application ,that you 
or your customers have to respect.  

-Monitoring : there are a lot of tools that you can use to control the correct 
functioning of your application , the costs the security ecc..
About your application, you can create events that automatically alert your
customers when something happens

5)Cloud Service Types  (Iaas , Paas , Servless , Saas) 

Imagine a pyramid :                     --
                                     --Saas--
                                   ----Serv----
                                 ------Paas------
                               --------Iaas--------


lower you are and more responsability you (customer of Azure) will have ,
instead,
higher you are more the service that you use is "already done" and complete

-Saas (Software as a Service) : we don't need big knowlegment to use this kind of 
service, Azure offer you a Software to use; you are not interested about when and 
how this Software is execute and with which hardware , CPU , memory ecc.....
Azure will manage this. 
You only have to use this Software. (for ex: Dropbox , you can do a backup or you 
can take a photo simply using Dropbox platform) 
Your responsability are much low in this case 

-Paas (Platform as a Service) : dedicated in particular to developers. 
(for ex:
You'll only install the operative system and develop your application on the 
Virtual Machine that Azure offer to you . Azure manage the hardware , you need 
only to choose the subscription with particular performance.
You don't know the type of CPU , the type of RAM  ecc... they manage this , you 
will have the performance requested and stop , how they do this isn't a your 
problem, not a your responsability. You want only an environment where develop 
and execute your application, your responsability is only to choose the right 
subscription for you.

-Iaas (Infrastructure as a Service) :  Azure offer you a virtual hardware. You 
can manage this hardware (you can request more CPU or more Memory or a stronger 
graphics card ecc....), through a special Azure interface. Also the management
of the hardware , is a your responsability in this case.
(ovviamente se vuoi per es. più memoria non vai tu personalmente ad aggiungere
 più memoria hardware ,lo fa il tizio che fatica alla Microsoft)   

-Servless: is between Paas and Saas 
In Paas your responsability is only to choose the right subscription for you.
In Servless you will not do this , you develop your program and give it to 
Azure , they will choose the greatest plane for you and you will pay only what 
you will consume.(scaleranno le risorse in base a quello che ti serve)
 (you have not to manage your program , you only develop it 
and give him to Azure, then Azure will do the rest) 

6) Regions , Region Pairs , Sovereign Region 

Azure has its servers in more than 60 regions around the world. These regions are
organized in couple ;the couples are more near possible because this give 
advantages about latency ; for ex. for backups will be used the couple of a region
to store the copy , so the latency during the backup will be minimum; or if a
region fall ,  there will be the couple region to replace it.
(ex. regions couple : centre Canada+est Canada, nord Europe+centre Europe)

You can't have access to all the 60+ regions , there are particular regions 
called Sovereign Regions in which,for government or other reasons, you need
permits to have acces.For ex. in United States there is a region for the 
Department of Defense and you have to be a government member to have access ;
or the Cina is an other Sovereign Region , you need a cotract with a Cina company
to have acces ; then Germany was a Sovereign Region but no more becuase now 
in Europe the data are managed at the same time.

7)Availability Zones 

In some regions(not all) can be more availability zones, meaning more separate 
buildings with servers and resources ; so if for ex. you have 3 servers in a
region , and in a building with a server fall the eletricity , you still have 
other 2 active servers in separate buildings. 
So the availability zones are indipendent among them.
You can choose between more availability zones , if don't do this , Azure will
do this for you.

8) Resources groups 

The different resources can be divided by you in more logical groups also if these 
resources are in physical different regions.
You can divide these resources fo management groups or for common government 
rules or for the same subscription . Yes because you can choose a subscription 
for every single resource or a group.

9)Azure Compute services 

Compute service is ,in general, the ability to run code in the cloud.
Services like virtual machines,virtual machine scale set, App services(or AppWeb),
Containers , Kubernetes.

-Virtual machine: you can copy your personal computer and execute this machine 
like virtual machine in the cloud. You need to choose an operative system offered
by Azure, they offer some Windows versions and some Linux distribution. 
So it's like you've a physical machine and you can choose the hardware
configuration (how much RAM , Memory , CPU  ecc......)
-Virtual machine scale set(VMSS) : in a specific moment , when the traffic grow, 
you may need more virtual machine instances , so this grow of the virtual 
machine instances will happen automatically. This is VMSS. You can configure 
when and how much your virtual machine instances needs to grow or to reduce;
you don't pay for VMSS , you pay only for virtual machine instances.
YOU CAN MANAGE A GROUP OF VM AS ONE UNIT
-App services: in few words , you can give your finished application to Azure 
, and Azure will public your application on Azure platform. You don't know 
how this application is executed (with which hardware) , Azure only promise you 
certain performance . 
-Containers: is an easier way to ditribute your application. You can tranform 
your code in an image , this image ,contains your application and his 
configuration, and an other person can immediately execute your application in a 
different environment or operative system , simply giving this image to him. 
-Kubernetes: is an other conteiners service but is more used to a company level, 
also because it requests a cluster of machines.

10)Network services

We will talk about virtual network, virtual subnetwork, VPN gateway,ExpressRoute.

-When you connect 2 virtual machines or you do a reserch on web with a virtual 
machine you are using the Microsoft network (his cable/cords , his satellites , 
his submarine cable ecc...). Obviously now they aren't connecting cords now to 
allow you to use Internet (they only configure this),the cords are already
connected hahah, for this is called virtual network. 
-You can create your personal virtual subnetwork, and configure your 
security settings , so you can divide youre virtual network in an isolated 
security zone. 
-VPN(virtual private network): you can connect 2 virtual network together , so
it will be like an unique network.(you can for ex. you are in your home with your
laptop and through VPN you can connect your laptop to your office network ;so 
your laptop is connected to your home network and your office network , like 
these 2 networks were like an unique network) 
-ExpressRoute: when you use the normal network , this is a public network , also
if the data are encrypted the other person connected can see these data.
ExpressRoute is a private network , here the data are encrypted and isn't public
so the people can't see these data(for ex: your company can use a personal 
ExpressRoute to send data)

11) Azure storage 

There are a lot of way to storage data offered by Azure.
BLOB: you can have an Account Storage ,this is the cheapest way to storage data.
You can storage your data in a data lake(is a big big storage formed also by peta
and petabyte) in some blocks called BLOB(is a file). 
FAILOVER: when a BLOB storage in a particular region fall , and you can't use 
this region , you can use another region to do your backup , without attend that 
the region wake up; this "ability" is called FAILOVER.

+Container(BLOB)(archivi) and File Storage : memorizza dati,solitamente in gran 
quantità, e il costo è molto ridotto per quanto riguarda i giga , ma è maggiore 
quando devi leggere o scrivere dati , quindi è una conservazione più a lungo
termine.Quando devi accedere ad un file lo devi prima "scongelare", servirà
circa un ora per ciò.Puoi anche aumentare le prestazioni di velocità ma ti
costerà .La posizione del tuo archivio (nel mondo) avrà prezzi diversi in base 
alla località.Puoi applicare delle ridondanze ,ovvero replicare i tuoi file in
più regioni (di base Microsoft applica una ridondanza base dove i tuoi file sono
in 3 regioni , puoi aumentarla pagando)
+Disk Storage: pensati per memorie in macchine virtuali poichè lettura/scrittura
random veloci ,non paghi per accessi o per giga ma fai dei pagamenti mensili 
(periodici)
-DATABASE. diversi tipi:
+CosmosDB: per applicazioni che richiedono dati veloci (come giochi online) , db 
con query velocissime ,fatto per mandare pochi dati in pochi millisecondi.
Non c'è sql . Supporta molte API open source e protocolli.Facile da 
replicare(global).
Aggiornameti veloci.
I dati possono essere memorizzati in molti modi (multimodale)
+Azure SQL Database : completamente gestito da Azure (tu dai solo il codice).
Facile da replicare. DB relazionale. Facilmente scalabile. Facile migrare in
macchina virtuale , SQLserver ecc
+Azure database for PosthreSQL : database più grandi e complicati che richiedono
più risorse(cluster ecc) per essere gestiti.
+SQL Managed Instance: Molto compatibile con SQL Server. Gestito da Azure.
Aggiornato sempre.
-Azure Marketplace: ci sono vari sevizi e gruppi di servizi che vengono forniti
e tu puoi scegliere il migliore per te.
Cose che non stanno nel set predefinito di Azure

12) Security

-Azure Active Directory(also called Azure AD or A18) is an Identity as a Service ;
is a tool that you can apply on your application on a server, and his goal is to 
control the identity of a person (usually with password and Id, or it can control 
the identity of an hardware , an application ecc...) in a secure way .
So when a customer want to do the acces , the request with pass and Id don't go 
directly to the server(between the server and client there is the Azure Active 
Directory server) , the request is passed to A18 that control the identity , and 
if the identity is confirmed , A18 will send a token firmed with an ecrypted firm
to the client . At the end the client will send this token to the server , and the 
server will trust this firmed token . 
You can have this service for a little cost , so in this way you don't need to 
develop an identity control for your application.

Azure AD advantages : +there are a lot of functions that you can use(it depends 
from the Azure AD subscription for which you are paying).For ex: you can control
a lot of data like the access, or you can configure the authorization , who is 
administrator who is a premium customer ecc... +If you have more applications,
you can configure an unique Azure AD for all applications, so if you want you can
control the summary data of your application(always data about access ecc....)
and have a centralized control of your customers.+If for ex: a customer want to 
change his password , Azure AD will manage this , you haven't implement this.
+Your Customers can have the same password and Id for all your application 
managed by Azure AD , they haven't to write pass and Id everytime they want to
change application , with an unique access they can have access to all your 
application(if they are managed all with Azure AD) (Remember: the identity control
don't reguard only person but also devices and applications)

-Differents between Authorization and Authentication 
Authentication:when you have to dimostrate that you are who you say you are
Authorization: usually in an application not everyone have permits to do
everything ,it depends from authorization the you have(usually are 
not registered customer, registered customer , administrator)

-Azure AD conditional access
Is a function of Azure AD. If for ex: an administrator (so a relevant person ,need
to do many attention to the person that have much authorization) want to access to
his account from an other country....is a suspicious behaviour....why this worker 
isn't in your office ...or in his country....could by an hacker.
.So for this reason or other suspicious reason like an administrator that want to 
access by a device never used , or an administrator that want to access after too 
many time , or an administrator that mistakes the password too times ecc.....
So Azure AD will ask him to send a code from is telephone or an other kind of 
additional identification test.
(i said always administrator because is a relevant person but you can configure 
all....the kind of person and the kind of suspicious acts)

-Multi-Factor Authentication 
Is a second demonstration of your identity in addition to the password and Id 
verification.Usually done with a mail sent to your email , or a code to your 
telephone or with an authenticator app.
An other type of second authentication is the biometrical authentication using 
face or the fingerprint but is for application more important like for ex. your
bank account.

-Passwordless authentication(different from Multi-Factor Authentication )
For more security, you can add on your application , in addition to password and 
Id authentication , the multifactor auth. or Passwordless authentication.
Confirming a user’s identity without the use of a password.The reason it works is
that your identity doesn’t have to be verified by a knowledge factor like a 
password. You can prove your identity by presenting a part of your body
(a biometric factor) or an access code or link you received on a device or
app that you own (a possessive factor) instead; methods that have been tested 
and implemented in a variety of ways. 
As you can imagine, passwordless authentication is popular among employees
 because they no longer have to memorize long, complicated passwords. Instead, 
they log into software using something they can’t forget, like their fingerprint 
or phone. Passwordless authentication also makes things easier on IT. 
They don’t need to store passwords, send password reset reminders, or monitor
possible security incidents due to password breaches(dovuti a violazioni di password).

-Role based access control (RBAC)
Is the control of the authorization given to a specific roles.
When an administrator for ex. need to do a special action , he needs to a special
authorization based on attestation (is a kind of RBAC), in few works to be 
authorized he needs to have a special token (you need the ticket to enter to the 
concert)

-Zero-Trust model of security (is a concept)
Imagine that your pc is your home , when you close your home , you close with a
the principal doors that separate you from outside , but inside the house is all
open, you have access to all rooms and drawers(cassetti) without other keys. 
Return to our pc....is an house with a close principal door ( our firewall), but 
when we are inside , we can fuck all the application and data ....we need to avoid
this ...we need to add new levels of security....new levels means that we need to
add new levels of authorization when an user (that we always should see like an 
hacker, we need to see him always with suspicious eyes) ask to do other things.
For ex: an authorization to do an important thing has a limited time 

-Defense in Depth 
Is a concept that said to add security level for all levels(level of access and 
identity, Data level , network level , ecc...). So you need to add many kinds of 
security level when a customer wants to access to the network , an other when he 
wants to access to the data ecc..... in this sense is a defense in depth.
Is a concept of security in general , not only for authentication or authorization
, for ex: network level, to avoid DDos attacks you can configure an Api so that ,
it can limit the number of request in a period of time .
There are many kind of security products in Azure , at least (almeno) 5 for every 
level.

-Microsoft defender for cloud (is a general service)
Is where you can manage the general security of your servers, networks , database
ecc.... you will pay for this services for month(approximately 15$ for server) ,
not for performance.Here you can manage your security in general , you can access
on a summary dashboard with the summary statistics of your security , advices to
improve it, the protected informations ecc......

13) Cost managemet

-Metrics: There are a lot metrics for which you can pay. You can pay for
performance,for months, for hours , for number of backups, for number of regions ,
or for what you use (this is called Consumption Model).
The price depends obviously by the metric, by the region , by the availability 
zone.

-Reservation/Booking : you can book a resource and pay for it in advance
(in anticipo), so you'll pay less for this resource.Is a way to save money.
An other way to save money is to use the license of your business contract with 
Microsoft instead of buying a license from Azure.

-Azure Pricing Calculator: is a free tool offered by Azure with which you can do a
general estimate(stima) of how much you will spend using Azure resources.For ex: you
will insert in this tool what resources you need , in which region , with which 
metric, the  bandwidth(so the trasmission speed equivalent to the amount of
 transmissible information) ecc... with all this information , the Azure Pricing 
Calculator will give you an estimate of how much you'll spend.

IMPORTANT(for the difference with Total Cost of Ownership Calculator):
here we calculate the price to "buy" resources in a certain region,with a certain 
bandwidth ecc.... ;we don't calculate the costs to manitain these resources, that 
obviously depends from how long time we want to maintain these resource. We do this
kind of calculation with Total Cost of Ownership Calculator.
Are two different type of price , you have to sum these to have a complete estimate
of how much you will spend.

-Total Cost of Ownership Calculator: with this tool we can calculate an estimate of 
the price that depends from the maintainment of the resources (for ex: the 
alimentation of our servers, the number of backups, how long time the servers have
to be active ecc.....) and how long time these resources will need you. 

-Azure Cost Management: is a platform with a lot of tools with which you can 
manage and analyze your expenses(spese).Graphs of cost analysis ,recommendations to 
save money, your historical invoices, then you can set up a budget and when for
ex: in a particular period the expenses overcome(superare) the budget , Azure will
send you a notification.You have also forecast(previsioni) functions of the costs
ecc......

-Resource tags : you can apply one or more tags on a resource. A tag is a couple 
(resource, "value chosen by you") , you can use tags like metadata(information to
give to an informatic resource like name of the creator , who pay for this resource
, who use this resource ecc...); these tags can be used to oreder and categorize
the resource for ex: if you are in a big company and you want to use the Azure 
Pricing Calculator only on resources of a specific departement....you have tags 
to understand to which department a resource belongs to.
  
14)Azure Governance and Compliance(conformità/rispetto)
With governance we intend the technically rules and the respect of these. For ex:
we have a server and this server has to do one daily backup...a rule like this.
With Compliance we intend to controlling that these rules are respected. There is a 
thing called Compliance Control Modality that is an automatic control of the rules 
for ex: Azure will send you(administrator) which servers don't do a daily backup;so
is a reporting server; Azure don't fall these servers ,Azure only notifies you that 
that server is not compliant (conforme).

-Azuer Blueprint : remember , you can have more resources, you can have different 
subscription for different resources and you can categorize these resources. 
With Blueprint you can apply policy(politiche)(rules of compliance) to a group of
resources or to a particular subscription.You can do this by applying rules to a
code level , so the staff(dipendenti) will be force to respect these rules (for ex:
when a staff membre create a server, he has to configure a daily backup , or he
can't create it) or you can configure a Compliance Control Modality (see up).
You can apply a lot of policy like the istance type of VM or which regions yes and
no ecc.....

-Azure Policy Resource Locks(blocchi delle risorse): in few words you can configure
locks to resources .For ex: you can create a VM and configure it only for read ,so
other person can only operate on it but can modify it or delete it. 
Only you (administrator) can decide who can delete this locks or configure other
locks. 

-Service Trust Portal : remember that we said that when you for ex: create a server
in a special region , you need to respect the policy of this particular region 
(for ex: GDPR policy for data, FEDRAMP for authorization)
Service Trust Portal is simply a central database of all these documents , 
categorized  for position and for objective.(nel senso che se tu devi fa na cosa
in particolare vai a vede quello , che te ne fotte del resto)
So this is an Azure service that help you to respect policy and to by updated.

15) Tools for management and distribution of Azure resources

-Azure Portal: is the Azure platform on web with which you can manage your 
resource , control if they are all active , the performance , you can change 
configuration ecc....
If you have a large number of resources , you can also use scripting languages to
manage youre resources instead of Azure Portal. Azure scipting language supported 
are PowerShell e CLIA Ally (called also Bash) ,and you can use it on Command line/
Prompt. The advantage is that the script are already write you have only to 
execute it with a simply command ; so you can create a script for long and 
frequently operations for ex: create a VM and configure it in a particular way....
, to do this you will write only one time a script for this and then every time
you need to create and configure in that particular way the VM, you can do this 
quickly only with a command .
+If you get the Azure SDK you can write programs to interact with Azure. 

-Azure Arc Air Sea(Azure ARC): is a service that allow you to manage your 
resources that are indipendent from Azure (for ex: you can manage with this 
dashboard a server in your Amazon Cloud).You can manage these resources not in 
Azure but like they were in Azure.
This service is still in progress.

-ARM (Azure Resource Manager): there is between the primary way to manage your 
resources (SDK, Prompt , Azure Portal) and your resources. 
When you create a resource, it becomes an ARM model , so you can manage the 
resource with this other software.The configuration data that pass between ARM 
and cloud that has to satisfied the request are in JSON(a JavaScript format to 
storage and manage data) and if you want you can obtain these data to modify or
directly modify these data on JSON. (*****latest 5 lines)

16) Azure Monitoring Tools

-Azure Advisor: is a tool that give you advices about costs, security,
and in general how optimizing resources management (for ex: if a server is 
powerful compared to its use , Azure advice you to decrease the power to save
costs) (or for ex: security advice, Azure realizes that RDP port is open , so he
advice you to close it )

-Adzure Service Health: is a tool with which you can control resources
(GENERAL resources and service offered by Azure,not your personal resources)in a 
map , so you can see in particular the region in which are. You can control if 
these regions are active, or if these regions have problems(if that happens
Azure will notify you or Azure will notify you if there will be works that 
will make a region unavailable) and you can see the kind of problems ,you can 
see the historical problems of these regions and the problems faced(affrontati)
the days before , and how Azure resolved or how will resolve these.

-Azure Diagnostic Setting : is a centralized dashboard with all your resources.
Here there are a lot of information and statistics about these , you can 
configure the statistics type that you're more interested or you can configure
notification when something happens (for ex: i can set a notification where my
server rachs 1000 requests) i can also configure automatic functions when
something happens.The resource o group of resource set of statistics is called
diagnostic, and i can give a name to each diagnostics.
+Exist a special kind of Azure archivation account that takes the log data by 
certain resources, are special kind of data to do an analysis

-Azure Monitoring: is a dashboard in which there are statistics and data about 
performance of your resouces. Here you can do query if you want a particular data
,you have to use a certain kind of query language called Key q I Costeau;obviously 
(si chiama cosi, non ho sbagliato a scrivere) there is a set of preimposted query.

-Workbooks : you can create workbooks for resoures, are file with predefined 
template that you can fill(riempire) these with data and statistics about the 
particular resource. So you can create personalized comment about your resorce,
using your metrics.
--------------------------------------------------------------

+In Azure when you deploy a VM the following components gets deployed along(con se) :

NIC
Network Security Group
Public IP
Disk

A NIC is a component which holds the Public IP and the private IP of the VM.

+A network interface enables an Azure Virtual Machine to communicate with
 internet, Azure, and on-premises resources(risorse proprie/locali). When
creating a virtual machine using the Azure portal, the portal creates one
network interface with default settings for you. You may instead choose 
to create network interfaces with custom settings and add one or more
network interfaces to a virtual machine when you create it.

+A Network Interface (NIC) is an interconnection between a Virtual Machine and
 the underlying virtual network. An Azure Virtual Machine (VM) has one or 
more network interfaces (NIC) attached to it. Any NIC can have one or more
 static or dynamic public and private IP addresses assigned to it.

---------------------------------------------------------------------------------
DOMANDE E RISPOSTE 


-What benefit does Availability Sets provide when it comes to
 virtual machines in Azure?
Physically and logically separates virtual machines so that if one goes down ,
the others do not go down.
Availability Sets allow you to tell Azure which virtual machines are identical,
 so that Azure will keep them apart(separate) physically inside the datacenter.
 This helps when there are either expected or unexpected downtime(caduta temporanea)
,by increasing the chances that one issue does not affect all VMs in a 
single Availability Set.
(quindi se ci sono problemi ad una macchina , abbiamo la copia indipendente funzionante)

-Single Sign-On : the ability to log with an existing userid and password in many
applications , and not have to create/memorize a new one 

-Why is Azure App Services considered Platform as a Service??
You give Azure the code and the configuration , and you have no access to the 
underlying hardware 

-True or false: Azure charges for bandwidth used <b>inbound</b> to Azure?? 
FALSE.   Ingress bandwidth is free. You pay for egress (outbound)
(La larghezza di banda di ingresso è gratuita. Si paga per l'uscita (in uscita))

-How many availability zones are there in each region (for regions that have them)?
        3.

-What type of documents does the Microsoft Service Trust Portal provide ? 
A list of standards that Microsoft follows ,pen test results,security assessments(valutazioni)
,white papers,faqs,and other documents that can be used to show Microsoft's 
compliance efforts(impegno al rispetto delle regole)

-What is a public endpoint ? and private ?
A public endpoint is effectively a URL that you can use to access data and
applications from outside a virtual network. This includes the public Internet.
Applications inside Azure can also access this using the public endpoint.
 Of course, there is often additional security on the application or data 
to prevent malicious use of this endpoint.
The public endpoint can be enabled, restricted to certain networks or disabled.
A private endpoint is a network interaface that uses an IP address .
With this interface you can connect to the network in secure way and privately.
With private endpoint you bring the service to the virtual network.

-True or False: An Azure Storage Account can have both a public endpoint 
and a private endpoint at the same time???
TRUE.   The public endpoint can be enabled, restricted to certain networks or
 disabled. Multiple private endpoints can be created. There is no restriction 
preventing you from having both a public endpoint accessible from the Internet
and one or more private endpoints as well

-True or false: Azure Active Directory is a network gateway that load balances
 user logins using a CDN (Content Delivery Network) ??
FALSE . No, Azure Active Directory is an enterprise identity service that 
provides single sign-on and multi-factor authentication.

-Which of the following is the best approach when you need to copy large amount
of files between two Azure Storage accounts?
AzCopy allows you to copy files between two Azure Storage accounts without having
 to download the files to your local machine. The other options are slower,
 and more expensive.

-Which of the following elements is considered part of the <b>network</b> layer 
of network security?
Separate servers into distinct subnets by role 

-What feature of a system makes it elastic?
The ability of it to add and reduce capacity based on actual demand 

-Which of the following Azure Resources are required in order 
to have a virtual machine?
STORAGE ACCOUNT [SI]
NETWORK INTERFACE CARD (NIC) [SI]
VIRTUAL NETWORK [SI]
PUBLIC IP ADDRESS [NO]

-What is the fastest connection type between your on-premesis network 
and Microsoft Azure, if money was not a concern?
  Express Route 

-What Azure resource allows you to evenly split traffic coming in 
and direct it to several identical virtual machines to do the work and 
respond to the request?
Load Balancer or Application Gateway

-What affect does using a "read only" resource lock
 on a Azure Storage Account have?
Resource Locks only affect your ability to make changes to a resource
 within Azure but do not affect the resource itself. For instance, a
 resource lock on a virtual machine still allows the VM to operate but
 will prevent someone from restarting a VM. Similarly, a resource lock 
on a storage account only affects the Azure properties of the account
(quindi nel senso che alcune cose che puoi fare con quella risorsa sono bloccate
ma cmq la risorsa continua a funzionare correttamente.

-What Azure tool gives you the ability to manage multiple
 subscriptions into nested hierarchies?
Management Groups 

-What benefit does Azure Scalesets provide when it comes to virtual 
machines in Azure?
Scalesets are groups of virtual machines, managed as a single unit.
 You can set rules for scaling up or scaling down.

-True or False: Under the Infrastructure as a Service model, Azure is
 responsible for managing the physical host, physical network,
 and physical datacenter. (nota quel FHYSICAL)
 TRUE 

-.Which feature within Azure alerts you to service issues that happen
 in Azure itself, not specifically related to your own resources?
Azure Service Health 

-Which Azure AD licenses are made available through Azure?
Azure Active Directory provides the following licenses: 
Azure Active Directory Free, Office 365, Premium P1, and Premium P2

-Which Azure Service gives you access to your own personalized Windows 10 or 11
 desktop machine in the cloud, so that you can access your work files and 
applications whereever you go from any device?
 Azure Virtual Desktop 

-Which of the following elements is considered part of the <b>perimeter</b>
 layer of security?
Use a firewall 

-Which of the following are factors in Total Cost of Ownership?
The total cost of running a server includes not only the cost of the machine
 (hardware), and the software, but also the costs of hosting that machine
 including electricity, real estate(possesso), Internet, and salaries of
the employees needed to manage the machine

-What are the two features that Azure AD provides? Choose two.
Logic Apps [NO]
Application management [ SI ]
Azure DDoS Protection [NO]
Logs Analytics [NO]
Authentication [ SI ]
Functions [NO]

-Which storage redundancy option is the cheapest?
LRS (Locally Redundant Storage)

-True of false: Azure Powershell scripts and Command Line Interface (CLI) 
scripts are entirely compatible with each other?
FALSE 

-Which of the following scenarios would Azure Policy be a recommended 
method for enforcement?

-Which of the following scenarios would Azure Policy be a recommended method
 for enforcement?
Azure Policy can add restrictions on storage account SKUs, virtual machine 
instance types, and rules relating to tagging of resources and groups.
(ricorda: le limitazioni sono imposte sulle risorse , non sulle persone)
(Allow only one specific roles of users to have access to a resource group è 
SBAGLIATO) 
(Prevent certain Azure Virtual Machine instance types from being udes in 
a resource group è CORRETTA) 

-True or false: Azure Cloud Shell allows access to the CLI(Command line di Azure)
and Powershell consoles in the Azure Portal
TRUE 

-What is the benefit of economies of scale?
the more you buy of something , the cheaper it is for you
( più si acquista di qualcosa , il più economico è per voi )